Um, Hey, so good to see
everybody this morning.
You wanna know one of the things that
I enjoy about living on the east coast?
You guys, aren't looking at your
watches all day to wonder if
we gotta get home for the game.
I'll get you out in plenty of time.
Plenty of time game started at one.
See, that's the good thing, right?
Where we used to live in Oklahoma,
the pastor had to preach short
or people just start walking out.
Right.
So I don't have to do that.
It's good.
So, um, super excited today,
um, to finish up our series.
So if you've been with us,
if you haven't it's okay.
But we are finishing up our series.
We've been walking through our
mission, our strategy as a church.
Um, and we took a break the last
two weeks with serve Sunday.
We had a communion Sunday, but
we're finishing that up today.
And so I'm gonna kind of catch some
of you up on what we talked about.
Uh, but this week we're gonna talk
about expanding God's kingdom and why
that's part of our strategy and why we.
That as God's called us to inspire hope by
helping people discover God's purpose for
the life through relationship with Jesus.
That, that the biggest part of that
is seeing God's kingdom expanded
to see basically more and more
people come to faith in Christ.
That's one of our biggest
strategies as a church.
And one of the cool parts this morning
is I, we kind of coined this phrase.
Um, to live inspired.
Right.
And it seemed like everybody
that was walking in today was
wearing the live inspired shirt.
And I think most of 'em
may have been serving.
So, uh, that's probably why they
were wearing wearing it, but we used
the word live inspired because every
day when we wear that shirt, when we
think of that, That, that statement
we think of how can we live today
in a way that inspires other people
to discover a relationship in Jesus.
Right?
And so as a church where that's just who
we are, and that's why we wanted to talk
about this, cuz we know, and this is one
of the challenges that, um, who in here
likes routines, anybody like routines.
Okay, great.
Now I got a question for you
who likes when your routine's
all messed up, raise your hand.
Okay.
One of you.
Good.
Okay.
You're this doesn't apply to you.
Just close your ears.
Okay.
Most of us hate our
routines being mixed up.
We like comfort.
We like consistency.
We like to sit in the same seats.
We like to eat the same food.
We like to go to the same places
we'd like to know what's going on.
Well, because of that, and this is
what happens in our faith, right?
In our walks with Christ,
we get comfortable.
We're happy with the
seats in which we sit in.
We're happy with the places in which
we're, you know, we've given my life
to Christ and I'm living my life in.
This is good enough.
This is, this is, this is all
that God's called me to do.
When we realize is that God's
consistently say this is that we
are supposed to grow in our faith.
And so very similar because we have a lot
of kids in our church and, and most of us
understand this idea of when your kids are
born, even though for some of your mamas,
want those babies to say babies forever.
Ultimately they're gonna grow up
and they're gonna grow up because
that's, their design is to grow up
and mature, sad, but true mom, sorry.
Sad, but true.
They grow up and I think of it this way
as a dad, I love seeing my kids grow up
because it makes me proud to know that
they can feed themselves, that they can
clothe themselves, that they can take
care of themselves, that they are becoming
mature in their faith and they're able to
make wise decisions and things like that.
And so I look at that as awesome.
See, that's what God does.
God looks at us as children of God.
And then he says, Hey, you know,
when we give our lives to Christ,
we're we're babies in Christ, right.
We're infants in Christ
and he wants us to grow up.
And so he celebrates when we, when we
start crawling and when we start walking
and when we start leaping and when we
start, you know, learning how to do those
things, and that's really what we've been
talking about as a church is how do we.
As a church fulfilled the
mission that God has given us.
Well, we grow up in our faith.
Well, how do we do that?
We grow in our faith by living in, or
having a relationship with Christ, right?
So following Jesus, by living in
community with one another, by
serving those around us and by
ultimately expanding God's kingdom.
And as we do these things,
we mature up in Christ.
That's why we have them.
They're they're easy to remember.
It's and I always tell people this,
go to the Bible and read the Bible.
And if you don't see.
Where it says to follow Jesus.
And after Jesus example, if you
don't see where multiple people are
living in community, and that's how
they, they take care of one another
and they mature in their faith.
If you go to your Bible and you
see that Jesus served first, and he
taught us on his way out as he was its
disciples feet to serve other people.
And if you read your Bible and you see
God's kingdom expanding by multiplying
disciples, Groups of people and ultimately
churches, you see that all throughout the
Bible, we wanna continue to go to the word
of God, to define who we are as a church.
That's why we have these strategy.
That's why we have a mission.
That's why we're talking about as
a church, because all of us, if we
don't remember what God's created
us for will stay where we are.
We'll continue to be either one who
doesn't know how to walk or one that
doesn't know how to clothe ourselves.
And I know that's physically
speaking, but spiritually speaking.
And so that's why we wanted to.
Talk about our strategy and our mission.
And so we're gonna continue that today.
Um, and so with that, knowing
our goal is to take a next step.
That's been the challenge
each and every weekend.
So if you miss one of the messages
that we have had, and you haven't
been here online on our website,
inspiring hope church.com/watch.
If I'm right on that, I believe,
um, you can go out and find all
the messages that we preached over
following, living, and serving.
And then you can catch up on this one.
Obviously today, cuz you're here, but
I would love for you to go to do that.
But think about this small steps when
we're talking about next steps, right?
Small steps of obedience produce
big results, small steps of
obedience produce big results.
And so for some of you, it's
just taking a small step today.
And then a small step tomorrow
and a small step the next day.
And as we do that, we realize that
we begin to mature up in our faith.
Right.
So, um, where we're going to be just
for the first six, we're gonna be kind
of walking and jumping around today.
So I'm gonna confuse you a little bit,
but we're going to be, um, as I can
sit here and find it, cuz I didn't
write you down in the right place.
Hey, there it is John chapter one,
starting in verse 35, John chapter
one, starting in verse 35, but I
kind of wanna set this up a little
bit before we jump into the text.
If we're talking about expanding
God's kingdom, what is God's kingdom?
We gotta start there because if
we don't know what we're expanding
or what does that even mean?
We've gotta define what God's kingdom is.
And so I, I, a lot of times,
whenever I do this, I just go
and say, well, what is a kingdom?
Right?
Well, a kingdom is a country or a
state or a territory ruled by a king.
That may be simple to you, but I just
wanna make sure we're on the same page.
A kingdom is a country, a state,
a territory ruled by king.
And I would even say in today's
text and this idea of we are a
people ruled by a king, right?
King Jesus.
When you think of the word expanding
it's to make larger or more extensive.
So in a practical sense, I wanna, I wanna
lay out what you may ought be thinking.
It's the same thing I'm thinking,
how do we expand God's kingdom?
If God is ruler over everyone
and everything, I would agree.
That's kind of a little bit confusing,
but let me define a little bit further
and explain where we're going with.
This is just because God rules
over everyone doesn't mean
everyone recognizes God as.
So I hope that makes sense.
So ultimately God's kingdom is the
reign of God over the hearts and
lives of those who have trusted him.
See God is obviously in control
and, and ruler over everything.
But ultimately those who have
trusted in him have recognized him
as a king, the king of our lives,
one who saved us from our sin.
So our mission is to help more
and more people come to know Jesus
and recognize God as their king.
And ultimately in doing that
God's kingdom is expand.
More and more people begin to follow Jesus
and that group becomes bigger and larger.
And we have a role in that.
God's given us the mission to
have a role in that process.
So I hope that makes sense.
When we're talking about expanding
God's kingdom, what that looks
like, what it is, what it isn't.
And so I'm gonna say it one more time.
God's kingdom is the reign of
God over the hearts and lives
of those who have trusted in.
I wanna give you this
quote by John Calvin.
Here's what he says.
He said, John Calvin said it is
the task of the church to make
the invisible kingdom visible.
Well, the kingdom of God is
invisible to most around us.
They don't know who Jesus is.
They don't know that God is
the king over their lives.
And so, because we do know this, we are
to make the invisible kingdom visible.
And here's what he says.
He says, we do that by living.
In such a way that we bear witness
to the reality of his kingship in our
jobs, in our families, in our schools.
And he says, even in our checkbooks,
he says, because God is in CRI
in Christ is king over every one
of these spirits of our lives.
So the only way the kingdom of God is
going to be displayed in this world
before Christ comes as if we display
it, by the way we live as citizens
of heaven and subjects of the king.
So.
Why is expanding God's kingdom.
One of the last things we talk about guys
is because we ultimately know every one
of us, every one of us is part of helping
other people discover a hope in Jesus.
Every one of us plays that role.
And if we don't realize that we'll,
we'll miss something and we're
gonna continue to expand on that.
And I don't wanna keep jumping too
much further, but, um, I want us
to, to just jump into this today,
this text and begin to kind of.
What the Bible has to say
about these different areas.
When we talk about expanding God's
kingdom by multiplying disciples,
groups and churches around the world.
So Jesus' focus first on
multiplying disciples.
And this is what we're gonna
read here again in John chapter
one versus 35 through 49.
So I'm gonna read it here.
It says the next day John was standing
with two of his disciples, and this
is speaking of John the Baptist.
This is when he saw Jesus passing by.
He said, look, the lame of God.
The two disciples, heard him
say this and followed him.
And when Jesus turned to notice
them following him, he asked them
why or what are you looking for?
And they said to him, rabbi, which means
teacher, where are you staying come?
And you'll see, he replied.
So they went and saw where he was staying
and they stayed with him that day.
And it was about four in the, a.
Andrew Simon Peter's brother was one of
the two who heard John following him.
And he first found his own brother
Simon and told him we have found the
Messiah, which is translated Christ.
And he brought Simon to Jesus.
And when Jesus saw him, he
said, you are Simon son of John.
You'll be called CFAs,
which is translated Peter.
And the next day, Jesus decided
to leave for Galilee and he found
Philip and he told him to follow.
Now Philip was from beta in the hometown
of Andrew, Peter and Philip found
Nathaniel and told him we have found
the one Moses wrote about in the law.
And so did the prophets, Jesus, the son
of Joseph from Nazareth can anything good.
Come out of Nazareth.
Nathaniel asked, come
and see Philip answered.
And then Jesus saw Nathaniel
coming towards him and said,
here truly is an Israeli.
And whom there is no DEC.
How do you know me?
Nathaniel asked before Philip called
you when you were under the victory.
I saw you.
Jesus answered.
So we're gonna stop right there.
Oh, actually I think it's first 40.
So rabbi Nathaniel replied,
you are the son of God.
You are the king of Israel.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We're so thankful Lord for you.
And we're so thankful that every single.
Um, that we have the opportunity to
have a personal relationship with you.
Lord, we get to grow in our faith.
We get to know you more and you
get to work in and through our
lives Lord, as we surrender to you.
So today I, I pray that as we jump into
your word, as we begin to think about what
it looks like to, to multiply disciples
and groups and, and churches and Lord,
why that is part of, of your story and
why that's part of, uh, the church's
history and the church's future Lord,
I pray that all of our hearts are open
Lord to our role and our part of it.
Um, and so Lord, just pray that
our hearts and our minds are open
to whatever you wanna speak to us.
And so we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So the first thing that we're
gonna look at here is how Jesus
focused on multiplying disciples.
And you're gonna kind of see
one things I love about Jesus is
he's nonchalant about it, right?
He goes about his business.
He does his thing, but it seems
that the more and more that people
spend time around him, the more and
more they begin to reflect Christ.
And we're gonna see that
specifically in this.
And so Jesus, as we see in this
story story, right, John, the Baptist
asked, you know, Hey, this is Jesus.
And those two disciples followed Jesus.
And Jesus said, okay, well, you
know, Come and follow me basically.
And well, then we see
this with Philip as well.
And so Jesus had the ability
because he's God, right?
Son of God, that he could have just
went and found every single person in
the world and, and told him who he was.
And they could have given their
lives to Christ one person.
Right.
But Jesus and speaking of really,
even God's plan was God's design
was that everyone was a part of.
Helping people know, know Jesus, right?
And so we see this in the story.
And so it started first with John
and we're gonna see this in verses
35 through 37, where John was the
first one to recognize Jesus point
out to his disciples who Jesus
was and they begin to follow him.
Right.
Well then as they followed Jesus,
they were impacted so much that we
see that Andrew, one of the disciples
that begin to follow Jesus,  was so
impacted by the time that he spent
with Jesus, that he found his brother
Peter, and he says, come follow Jesus.
He says, come meet Jesus.
And obviously as Jesus meets them,
Peter begins to say, oh, okay.
Yeah, I, I wanna follow you as well.
And so just even with this story
specifically, right, we see Jesus
is the one that reached Andrew.
And Andrew's the one that reached
Peter and Peter, if you look at
the story and again, if you study
your Bible, you'll know this Peter.
was the rock that the church was built on.
We see this in the book of acts where
Peter was such an important person.
And I always ask these questions
when I read God's word, what if
Andrew didn't go find his brother?
Peter?
What if Andrew said, you know, all I
cared about was me following Jesus.
I found him I'm gonna hang out with him
and I'm gonna stay right where I am.
Cuz it's comfort.
I mean, this is fun.
This is Jesus.
I don't wanna leave his presence,
but no, he, he started thinking,
man, I have somebody that,
that should know who Jesus is.
I I'm gonna go find him.
And that's Peter.
Right?
So he went and found Peter and Peter
becomes this person who is again,
an important figure in the Bible.
I, I, I think so often at times when
we look at stories like this, when it
comes to all of us going and reaching
someone, we don't realize the impact
of inviting one person to come follow.
Jesus can do in this story.
It was a huge part,
Peter, the rock, right?
The one who the church
was started with an acts.
And I, I think back to
this guys, I am the result.
Of a friend in Oklahoma.
I'm the result of, I went to
college and I, I really didn't care
much about church at that point.
And, uh, we were getting
ready to have our first child.
And I remember Brittany telling
me, we need to get this whole
church thing figured out.
We need to figure out what we're doing.
I'm like, okay, I guess so.
Well, my friend Scott, he spent a
whole year with me cuz we had all the
same classes and he kept inviting me
to a church called Crescent valley.
And the one things I noticed
about Scott was different.
He just wanted to be my friend,
whether I went to church or.
He cared about me.
He told me truths, but he didn't judge me.
He just was present in my life.
And so it connected.
My wife said, Hey, when you get
this church thing figured out,
Scott said, come to church.
Well, this church was 40
minutes away from our home.
I guess we'll go to this one.
So we started attending a church.
We spent a year there getting to know
the church, getting to know Christ and,
and learning what Christ had done for us.
Getting to know Scott's family.
I gave my life to Christ a year
later and begin to follow Jesus.
And I begin to think back Scott,
this guy that was in my college class
because he consistently invited me cuz
I am here in Ohio planting a church.
Now what like was that all
Scott's responsibility?
Was there other people that invested
in me and helped me to that point?
But I think of Scott because
Scott was the one that invited me.
He was the one that invested me
to, to even come to know Jesus.
And I, I just think
Peter was the same way.
And many of us, if, if we think
about it in our daily lives, what
about the person at your job?
What if you invited them to come to Jesus?
What if they were the next person
who reached the next person who
reached the next person that
started churches around the world?
I don't know what it is, but it doesn't
matter if they start churches around
the world or whether they follow Jesus.
What if you're that story?
I've seen people in my life
that's been that story.
And so that stuck out to me, right?
That that not only Jesus was reaching
people, but the people Jesus was
reaching was reaching people.
So now let's look at verses
43 through 49, right?
Jesus reaches Philip and after
Philip began to follow Jesus, he
says, you know what, I'm gonna go
find Nathaniel, I'm gonna go find
Nathaniel, bring him to Jesus.
And obviously Jesus shares
with this story with him.
And Philip begins to follow Jesus.
So I wanna kind of summarize this from
the beginning Jesus model to build gods
kingdom was not just Jesus reaching
people and finding every one of them.
It was, he would reach people and
you would see the people that he
reached, go reach other people.
So I, I, if you guys are cool
with this, we're gonna, we're
gonna do a little bit of teamwork.
If you guys are fine, moving around
a little bit, some of you, I won't
make y'all participate, but if some
of you'll participate with me, I'd
love for you to participate with me.
I wanna give an example here.
So if I.
Just wanted to be one person
just like Jesus was right.
And just think about
this and go reach people.
I, I, I'm gonna be pretty slow at
it, but I'm gonna do this, Joe,
because I know you're okay with this,
Joe, why don't you come up here?
Because you know, I love Joe and
Joe don't even get afraid of me.
So good news.
I reached Joe over here,
told Joe about Jesus.
Joe's fallen.
Jesus is great.
Hey Joe, why don't you just hang out here.
Just keep following Jesus.
You just hang out here and I'm
gonna go reach somebody else.
Hey Brian, come here, Brian.
Come here.
Hey, man, man.
That's awesome.
See, Brian just gave his a lot to Jesus.
This is awesome.
Hey, you hang out here with Joe.
You guys stay there.
Yeah.
You just came hanging out.
I'm I'm gonna go out again.
Well, you guys see this, like if
I was to do this, we might spend
the rest of my message, me going
back and forth, back and forth.
But now let's just
think about this, Brian.
We're gonna act like you
didn't come up here yet.
I came and reached Joe
and I said, Hey, Joe, man.
So glad you gave your life to Jesus.
Let's go out and reach some more people.
Okay, well, my next guy's
Brian, who's your next person.
All right, man.
This is awesome now because
I chose to lead Joe to Jesus.
We both went out together because
Jesus changed our life so much and,
and we went reached two more people.
Well, Hey guys, we reach.
We can reach a lot more people.
If we work together, let's go get,
let's go get four more people.
Let's go get four people.
Hey Riley, why don't you come up here?
I want you to know Jesus.
Okay,
man.
Look at this.
This is crazy.
Oh, look at it.
See, Ryan's going to get three.
See, now, now some's happening.
See, he said, why did
you set the bar so low?
That's really what Ryan's saying here.
Okay.
See, I actually didn't set the tone.
Right?
I was just getting one guys, look at this.
I just wanna tell you there's a difference
between addition and multiplication.
Addition's a lot slower, even
though it's a lot easier for me, but
multiplication reaches a lot more people.
So you guys can go sit down.
We're gonna continue to talk about it.
Thank you guys for parti.
Think about this.
Jesus has always been about multiplication
because if it was always about addition,
Jesus, would've never left this earth,
even though I know it took his sacrifice
to pay for our sins, but Jesus, would've
never left this earth because it was all
about him walking and going to get people.
But it wasn't his plan God's plan all
along was to send us on Jesus to model.
What it was like to reach people,
tell them about the gospel and the
hope of grace and mercy and peace
and forgiveness and all these things
that the relationship that God wants.
Jesus was modeling that.
And the people that he reached
caught the caught the mission, got
the vision, and they begin to invite
people and they begin to invite people.
And here's the cool part because
they were committed to doing that.
We are all here today because
of their commitment to not
just leave it up to one person.
But again, I I'm telling you
it's easy and a room full of
people to say, you know what?
I'm just gonna let them do the addition.
It's uncomfortable to be a
part of the multiplication.
That's what I was talking
about in the beginning.
I, I really, I'm not wanting
to step on your toes to be rude
because that's not who I am.
I'm wanting you to see this.
If God, if God has so changed your life,
you wanna be a part of multiplication.
That's the cool part.
Like when I talk with Joe and Kristen,
a lot of times we haven't been meeting
online when we used to meet once a
once a week online on zoom, we got to
talking after they give their lives
to Christ and they begin to think of
people in their life and they would just
begin to start conversations at work
or, and, and talk to them about Jesus.
And, you know, I think you have had one
friend come Kristen, which is great.
And you know, all the conversations
you had, you would've wished
everybody would've came, but they
didn't, but you were intentional
to be a part of multiplication.
And that person may not be here
today, but I know that they've
been impacted by you and by the.
So I just think about that.
Right?
All of us have the ability to be a part
of God's plan of multiplying disciples.
Good news.
That's why as a church, we will focus.
We will dedicate ourselves
to multiplying disciples.
It's not just about me and
it's not just about you.
It's all of us reaching people for Christ.
And here's the cool part.
And I kind of mentioned
this just as kind of.
A reminder.
Yes, Jesus came to this earth to
model what it was like to follow him
and to, to live a life that followed
God and to surrender ourselves
and to be forgiven of our sins.
And he went to the cross
and he died for us.
And when he died for us, his
sacrifice paid for our sins.
Right.
But I think about this,
Jesus also had a bigger plan.
And again, I say, Jesus, God had a bigger
plan because he talks about in John 16,
seven, whenever he is talking about that,
he's gonna leave and he's gonna go away.
And he says this, nevertheless,
I'm telling you the truth.
He's speaking to the, uh, disciples.
It is for your benefit that I go away.
Because if I do not go away, the
counselor will not come to you.
And if I go, I will send him to you.
So by Jesus.
Choosing right to sacrifice his life.
He actually gave us something better.
And this is the coolest part.
Did you know that Jesus is with you
every day because the spirit of God that
lives inside of you at the Mona salvation
is God's presence with you every day.
So you always wonder, man.
I wish Jesus was going with me to
go witness to somebody is the, the
spirit of God is with this every day.
To guide us.
And so his great missional plan was to
send the spirit of God inside of each
one of us so that we would have the power
of God, the confidence, the spirit of
God to go and help reach other people.
I think that's so cool.
Right.
God's plan with this.
So he knew the greatest way to
expand God's kingdom was to send
the spirit directly into our
hearts to go everywhere with this.
But here's the cool part
we're gonna continue on.
Right.
So we talked about Jesus focused on
multiplying disciples, but he also
focused on multiplying groups and you'll.
Hang with me here, because this, this
part of it, I'm gonna reference a lot
of scripture, cuz we would have to
take a time, a ton of time to kind
of read through every part of it.
But I'm gonna reference scripture
here, but Jesus spent most of
the time with his 12 disciples.
So most of you may know this, this
text where Jesus goes up on a mountain.
He prays, he had all these people
following him and he chooses 12.
To follow him.
So Jesus spent a lot of his
time with a group of people.
He said that is important.
And I always tell people this, if Jesus
taken 12, I don't know if I can take more
than a couple, but even if you look at
Jesus's life, Jesus spent a lot of time
with three James, Peter, James and John.
So there's another group that
he had within his 12, right.
That he spent time with.
Then we see in Luke 10 where he
sent a group of 72 disciples out
to minister and spread the gospel.
So there's another group of people.
And then we see again, this is why I'm
referencing different, different things.
You can go out and look at it yourself.
Um, after Jesus told his disciples to
wait for the holy spirit, and this is
in acts one, they went into an upper
room and there was about 120 listed
there in acts one that was in that.
So there's another group.
But here's the, even the picture is the
spirit of God's what guided these people
in the beginning of, of the church.
And I tell you, I go into the
word of God and I say, Hey, how
did they live their faith out?
What did they prioritize?
Well in the book of acts after
Pentecost, which is whenever Peter
began to share the gospel and three,
th some people gave their lives
to Christ and acts chapter two.
You're gonna see this where they begin to
obviously listen to the apostles teaching.
And if you were here during the
time that we talked about living in
community, we would've heard this.
But they begin to listen to the
apostles teaching, but they begin
to break bread from home to home.
And as they broke bread from home
to home and celebrated one another
and built one another up, it says
that the Lord added to them daily.
And these were groups of people.
So the church was founded on groups of
people and prioritizing groups of people.
I want you to think about this.
Why is it important to spend
time in groups of people anybody
ever been in tug war match?
Any better been on the wrong
side of it, which means you have
nobody that knows how to pull.
And it feels like you're pulling
the rope all on your own.
You end up getting pulled in the mud.
See, here's the thing you got.
You girls know this.
I hope this sticks with you.
Okay.
If, if we spend time as individuals
in a relationship with Christ, that's
great, but we are better together.
Just like in a tug of war match.
If you only have one side of the rope
and you have 10 people on the other
side, you're gonna lose every time.
Guys designed these groups.
That's why I love this about axis.
Immediately.
After 3000 were saved, they
didn't just spend time.
In the 3000, they spent time
in each other's homes, in
smaller groups of people.
So the church was founded on that.
Obviously Jesus prioritized
that in his ministry.
And I want you to see this.
Why is a church?
Do we prioritize this?
Because we've seen it work.
So let me give you a great example.
So you guys can see this
story at inspiring hope.
Our family moved here,
one family, six people.
We started a group in our home, right.
Six people.
And we started addition.
We started inviting people
in inviting people in.
So one at a time here was the cool part.
One of the greatest things that I
loved is after we started inviting
people in like Lauren Orville, I think
Lauren Orville brought in like the
other half, like, what did they do?
They started multiplying.
They started inviting the Yoders
and they started inviting the buyers
and then they started inviting.
And then I've seen this happen where
a lot of you are here for the fact
of somebody else invited you in.
So then we started seeing multiplication.
We went from addition to
multiplication where our house got
full and yes, we started a service.
A church, big church where
we are right here, right.
With a whole group of people.
But then we said, you know what?
That group in our home's too big.
We need another group.
So we started a group in Middletown
and we saw a family out of our
group, go start a group and take
a couple families with them.
And, and they've reached some new people
from their neighborhood, which is amazing.
And then our group grew
and we added more people.
And we started seeing in those
groups where the Lord added
people to their group daily.
So when I think about God's word, I
say this, what does God's word say?
How do they live out their faith?
We should mimic it when we mimic it.
We should see if God, uh, God
works through those same things.
And he does, and we've
seen it in our church.
So if, if you see something that
works, you should continue to follow
after, especially when we're talking
about the word of God and that's
what we're gonna continue to do.
So we're starting another.
so this will be our third group
that we're multiplying, right?
Because we believe that we're
better able to reach more people
through multiplying groups, right?
Multiplying disciples, which
we're continuing to try to do.
Because one of the things I love
is there's people that are in
here that have been a part ofop
ship groups that are starting new
ones, which that is great as well.
So I say all this, right?
That it's so important that
we focus on multiplication.
But let me tell you that I wanna, I
wanna talk about this briefly, cuz I,
I, I started thinking about this, this.
You wanna know why we don't
typically multiply groups?
Anybody you gotta uncomfortable.
Why is it uncomfortable?
I knew you'd have the answer to this.
One of the hardest things was, is the,
the Bens and Yoders were the ones that
had went out to go start this other group.
And we started seeing each other less.
That was tough.
That's really tough because you love
those people and yeah, you could choose
another time to meet with them, but,
you know, we're, we're all families.
We have everything going on.
And so it's tough to say that
that's good, but you know how
we realized that it was good.
When I started hearing that their
neighbors were coming to their group.
When, when I started seeing other people
coming to our group and I started going,
this is why it's hard, it's difficult.
It's uncomfortable.
So rather than choosing comfort, In ease
of just, let's just huddle together.
In this one group, we chose
uncomfortable, difficult, and God
is doing something through it.
And that's why we'll
continue to choose it.
Even though it's hard because here's
the thing, guys, and this is truth.
It's not about building our kingdom, our
comfort it's about building God's kingdom
because God has changed their life so much
that we want other people to experience.
God's.
So I think that's important
for us to think through that.
Right?
The last one I want you to see here is
Jesus focused on multiplying churches.
And we see this mostly, obviously
in the new Testament, right?
Acts one eight says this, and this is
where Jesus's last words to his disciples
was this, but you'll receive power
when the holy spirit has come on you.
And you'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem,
Judea Samaria, and to the ends of the.
So Jesus' plan was to see God's words,
spread, spread all over the whole world.
And that's our desire as well, not just
in Hamilton, but around the whole world.
And as we continue to grow as a church,
we're gonna continue to, to push outside
of Hamilton and outside of Cincinnati
and outside of the United States.
And here's the cool part.
Cincinnati is actually kind of a
melting pot of different cultures.
And that's why if you were here
during serve Sunday, We actually
support an Arabic church planner.
Who's reaching somebody of
a different culture outside,
different worlds, different nations.
Right.
And so I love that because we're
focused on the same single thing.
So how do we know that God's plan
Jesus plan was to multiply churches?
Well, here's what we see again, let's
go to the Bible acts book of act, right?
The spirit of God came
into the disciples lives.
And until later we see Paul's life.
And they began to start churches
in Jerusalem, Judas Samaria
into the ends of the earth.
See Paul's letters were to
churches in these areas.
He would pin these letters to
the church, you know, in Philippi
or to the church in Galatia.
Right.
And we see that he wrote to these churches
and he even appointed leaders, Timothy,
and Titu over some of those churches to
set up leadership like eldership, if you
see, or deacons and, and to equip the
saints for the work of the ministry and.
The new Testament in the book
of acts, prioritize, multiplying
churches all around their area.
And ultimately you see that today we
are a result of a church being planted
because of their dedication to go
to those areas and plant churches.
And, and so we wanna be dedicated.
This is the crazy part.
Look around you guys.
See a lot of empty seats.
You think we could put
some more seats back there?
We can keep growing.
And I pray that we do because we wanna
multiply disciples in groups, but I pray
that we will one day and it may be soon.
We'll go start another church.
We'll send somebody out to
go start another church.
And you're saying, wait, we
could just fill up these chairs.
I hope we do.
But I believe this, that if we focus
on God's kingdom, expanding over our
kingdom, expanding that we will start
churches because it'll be uncomfortable.
It'll be D.
Why, why do you start another church?
Because there's a group of people
in another area of our city or in
another city that locally or around
the world that is waiting on us to get
uncomfortable, to take the message that
we have the power of God inside of us,
and to continue to do what Jesus did to
continue to do what the early church did.
Just like Paul did.
It was not easy for Paul to go to
those different areas and start
churches, guess go look at his stories.
And, and here's the thing.
If you haven't read the Bible
lately, go to the book of acts.
It's one of my favorite books.
I mean, it'll challenge your faith, but
you'll see the spirit of God working
through ordinary people in difficult
circumstances, planting churches, going
on, missionary journeys, bringing people
with them and seeing God change lives.
That's what we wanna see in our church.
We wanna see God continue to change lives.
So when we think about this,
but what is a church, right?
When we think about it, what is a church?
A church is a gathering of people to
meet under a common, spiritual purpose.
Again, we saw that Paul explained
to Timothy, we've walked through
the book of first Timothy, right?
How to set up leadership and why
it's important to have elders and,
and people to help lead out that.
Right.
So I'm not gonna get
into the details of that.
Um, but I do believe this, that that
got, has called us to continue to create
groups of people that are on mission
together, cuz we are better together.
Right?
We are better together.
So if we look at this.
And we see the last part of
our strategy is biblical.
I, I, I'm telling you, this
is what I've told everybody.
If there's ever a day where I preach
a message, that's not biblical,
pull me aside, pull out your
Bible and say, you're unbiblical.
And then here's the thing we may
disagree, but I'll just tell you this.
I wanna continually go
back to the word of God.
And that's what I did this week.
I wanna continue to say, what did God do?
How did God set up the church?
How did God fulfill the.
And he fulfilled the mission,
what I saw in these three ways.
And it, and it's the, the so
key, he didn't just say, this
is how you fulfill the mission
by letting certain people do it.
He says all of us have a role
in fulfilling the mission.
So why have we had a
series over next steps?
I'll just tell you this,
because I am burdened that we
are in a place as a church.
That is gonna require every
one of us, including me as your
pastor to take a next step.
And here's the thing I, I can't tell
you, I mean, I could sit down with
you and we could talk about it and I'd
love to do that, but I can't fully tell
you what that is, but I know God will
reveal that to you as you seek him.
And I believe that when you do, you
will see lives, change in your life.
And when you do, you'll
see God's kingdom expanded.
And when you do, you'll be
fulfilling the mission that
God's called us to fulfill as a.
But here's the thing we'll step on
some toes, but when you choose comfort,
when you choose to continue to do
the same thing, you're choosing to
red reject God's plan for your life
to continue to grow in your faith,
to continue to take steps of faith.
And again, I can't tell you everybody's
is gonna look different, right?
I can give you some suggestions.
I can give you some ideas.
I can walk alongside you as you pour into
the word, but that's not for me to fully
tell you, because I believe that if you
have a relationship with Jesus, He will
tell you, but you have to seek him first.
So how are we going to finish up today?
How do we, how do we finish up
and think through the rest of our,
our, our series here and thinking,
how do we take a next step?
There's three areas.
I'm gonna just gonna challenge you in.
Actually, I'll give you four areas.
So you can, you can take a
next step in just in the area.
As a church, we believe to
fulfill the mission that God has
given us to see God's kingdom.
It starts with following Jesus.
That's a great next step.
There, there, there, I, I don't know.
I mean, again, I, I, I can't tell
you, there's not like an on switch
where I can look at everybody and say,
everybody's getting the left of Jesus.
I don't have to share the gospel or
an off switch that says nobody's given
the left to Jesus, but, you know,
If you, haven't given your life to
Jesus, if you haven't surrendered to
who, who Christ is that he died for
your sins, that you have given your
life to him, that you've accepted that
forgiveness and that you begin to walk
in faith, then maybe that's you today.
And that's a perfect first step,
because if you try to take another
step, you're taking it really in vain.
There's, there's not a really reason.
And to go do, you know, live in
community and, and serve this around you.
If you, if you don't have a relationship
with Jesus, those won't value as much.
I'll just put it that way.
But another way that you could do
that is to live in community, right?
If you've given your life to
Jesus, Living in community is
one of the greatest things.
Uh, I'll tell you this, every single
person that has ever been in our
inspired groups, or we've got to
eat dinner with, I haven't heard
any of, 'em say I hate this now.
I don't wanna do this again.
This is horrible.
You people are crazy now.
Maybe they just don't tell me that
to put my face, but you know what
I have heard and I love this group.
Man, I need this.
I'm so glad that I, I found this
group, this group of people who
love me, who encourage me, who
help me be equipped in my faith.
I need this group of people.
See, that's what I hear.
And so I would just challenge you
if you're not a part of group.
I know we've we said this before, but back
on our next steps table, we have a card
that we want you to fill out and I should
have just handed it all out to you today.
Cuz the week that we did it, I
don't think there was anybody here,
but I wanted you to fill it out.
I wanted you to tell
me when could you do a.
When could, if you, if you could
have one night of the week that you
could have a group, when would it be?
We may not be able to have that group
that night, but you know what I we'll do.
We're committed to have every family in
this church, a part of an inspired group.
Even if you can't attend where we can pray
for you, we can reach out, encourage you.
And the night that you can meet,
we may have you over for dinner
because we want, we desire you so
much to be a part of community.
We don't want it to be a time constraint.
If that's what it is, because
I know sometimes Wednesday
nights doesn't work for you.
And we have a grip that's
starting on Monday nights.
I know Monday, night's not
gonna not work for you.
And if doesn't we'll
work something else out.
So that may be a next step for you.
Another one obviously is if
you've already given your life to
Christ, you're part of living in
community, serving those around you.
And I'm not talking
about just serve Sundays.
I'm talking about every day.
Do you know that the act of service
draws a lot of conversations,
you buy somebody's lunch, you
know, you change somebody's tire.
You go over, did you know that serving
somebody could really just be going
over and giving words of encouragement
and then they go, you're different.
Why?
And you can go this God
has so changed my life.
That I wanna be more like
Christ by serving people.
And they'll be like, well, who's Jesus.
And why does Jesus challenge,
like where do you see this?
And then you can just begin to say,
here's what I know, because here,
if you don't know a lot, you can say
here's what I do know that Jesus Christ
came into the world to safe sinner.
And you can say this, cuz
I say this all the time.
I am the worst of them.
And so there's nobody too far
from God that cannot be saved.
Right?
So maybe it's serving those
around him around you.
Ultimately you could be a
part of multiplying, right?
We're talking about expanding
God kingdom by multiplying
disciples, groups and churches.
This is one where I probably haven't
made this statement here to this group.
What if I know God's calling you
to multiply disciples because
if you've given your life to.
You're part of that picture.
What if God's called you to be a part
of multiplying groups to lead out
and be the next group that starts?
What if God is calling you to multiply
a church and you're the next church
planner sitting outta this church
and you're going, what not me.
I've said that before, and
I'm saying it here today.
So you can begin to pray
and say, Lord, is that me?
Could I be a part of this group?
Could I start a new group?
Maybe it's just, God's put somebody
on your heart to multiply, which means
there's somebody on your heart that
you're gonna go tell Jesus about.
I just gave you a lot of ways that you
can take a next step in that's the point
of com uh, what we talk about, um, at the
end of a service, where we reflect, right?
Where we reflect on what we feel like God
is speaking to us, we call it a time of
invitation because we are inviting you
to take a next step every single week.
If you ever wonder what invitation
is, it's inviting you to take a next.
And here's what I know if you have
a pulse and if you don't know how to
take your pulse, if you're breathing,
every one of us can take a next step.
Amen.
All right.
I'm gonna pray for us.
And after I get done praying,
I just wanna remind you this.
I'm always in the back.
Why do I stay in the back?
Cuz I'm an introvert and I
don't like being upfront.
No, I stay in the back for you not
to, to point anything out, but to talk
to pray with you, to encourage you.
Obviously, if you don't
need me, that's fine.
I'll stand back there and
pray as well just by myself.
But I just challenge you during
this time to seek the Lord on
what next step you can take.
And I, I love making this
last statement before I pray.
There is somebody waiting
on you to take a next step.
Don't leave him waiting.
I was part of that story and I'm so
glad Scott didn't leave me waiting.
And I know there's somebody on your heart
and mind as you take a next step, they're
waiting on you to reflect Christ to them.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you.
We thank you Lord.
For today.
We thank you so much, Lord, for just an
opportunity to come together, because I
think Lord, at times we take for granted
the opportunity we have to freely meet.
There's so many countries that
are not able to freely meet.
Or they would be killed, but Lord, we,
we come in here every week and we have
the option to come in here every week.
And some weeks we choose not to.
And some weeks we choose to, but Lord,
you've given us the ability to have a
group like this, a church that's committed
to the mission that you've given us, that
we've found in your word and Lord, I'm so
thankful for every person in this room.
That's a part of that.
It's a part of this journey.
To continue to see Hamilton
and the surrounding areas
come to know you, the Lord.
I know that as a church, the way forward
is not addition, but multiplication.
So Lord, I'm praying that in each person's
heart in this room, including my own,
that we seek you and we say, Lord, how
can we be a part of that multiplication?
How can we go out and display the
love of Christ to those around us?
How can we.
Minister to one another
better in this community.
How can we grow closer
to you in our faith Lord?
And as we take next steps, Lord, we see it
as such a benefit Lord that it is greater
than anything else we could choose.
And Lord that as we choose it, as
we choose to take that next step
Lord, that you begin to BR bring
in a peace and a confidence Lord
that we are living our faith out.
We are taking a next step
and we're figuring out Lord
what you've called us to.
Lord that we will continue to
take those steps out of that joy
Lord that we receive out of that.
Um, Lord, we just pray, uh, for the
person in this room, Lord, um, who may
be just struggling Lord in their faith.
Uh, Lord, I'm praying for the
person who may be struggling
to just fully surrender to you.
And, uh, Lord, I pray
that today they choose.
To say yes to you, Lord.
I, I pray that they choose to just
step out and to come back and to talk
to me about how to get their lives to
Christ or how to take the next step.
Lord, don't let them be
too scared or defeated.
Well, Lord, give them
boldness to take that step.
So Lord, we love you and we praise you
and we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.